# Console Guide

**Data & Analytics > EasyQueue > Console User Guide**

## Manage Topics

An EasyQueue topic is a unit for grouping related messages. They are used to asynchronously publish and subscribe to data between applications.

### View a Topic List 

* A list of registered EasyQueue topics is displayed.
* When you click an item, the bottom tab of the topic's basic information appears.
* To view the details of a topic, click **View Details** button in the Action column.

### Create a Topic

1. To create a topic, click **Create Topic** button.
2. Enter the topic information.
    * **Name**: The name of the topic. It is generated by prefixing the entered name with the appkey.
    * **Description**: The description of the topic.
    * **Number of partitions**: Data is divided and stored across multiple partitions based on the number of partitions set for the topic.
    * **Message maximum size**: The maximum size of a single message that can be stored in a topic. This size includes not only the message body, but also overhead such as headers, keys, timestamps, and compressed metadata. Messages exceeding this size will not be stored.
    * **Maximum retention size per partition**: The maximum amount of data that can be stored in each partition. When this size is reached, older messages are deleted first.
Deletion occurs in segment file units (1 GB). Since segments currently being written to are not deleted, storage usage may exceed the configured limit by approximately 1 GB.
    * **Message retention period**: The maximum amount of time a message is kept in a topic. After the set duration, the message is automatically deleted.
3. Click **Confirm**.

!!! tip "Note"
    * The cleanup policy, replication factor, and minimum in-sync replicas for a topic cannot be modified.
    * Old messages are automatically deleted once either the maximum retention size per partition or the message retention period is exceeded.

!!! danger "Caution"
    **Up to 10** EasyQueue topics can be created per project.
    **Up to 64** EasyQueue partitions can be created per project and **up to 16** per topic.

### Edit a Topic

1. To edit a topic, click **Edit** button in the Action column.
2. Edit the topic information. You can edit the following: description, number of partitions, maximum message size, maximum retention size per partition, and message retention period.
3. Click **Confirm**.

!!! danger "Caution"
    * The number of partitions in a topic cannot be changed to less than the current number of partitions.

### Delete a Topic

1. In the list, click **Delete** button in the Action column.
2. In the confirmation window, enter the deletion confirmation text and click **Delete**. The deleted data cannot be recovered.


## View Topic Details

This is where you can view detailed information about a topic. You can check partitions, messages, consumer groups, and monitoring information.

### Partition
* A list of partitions in the EasyQueue topic is displayed.
* You can view partition ID, start offset, end offset, and total message count information. 

### Message
* A list of messages in the EasyQueue topic is displayed. Only up to 50 messages are retrieved.
* You can see the message transmission time, partition ID, offset, key, value, and header information.
* Click **View** button in the Header/Key/Value column to see detailed information about the key, value, and header.
* You can search for messages by configuring the Partition ID and Message Retrieval Type. 
    * Partition ID: Specify a specific partition to retrieve messages. 
    * Message retrieval type: From first, From offset, From new, From latest
        * From first: Retrieve messages in order of when they were sent.
        * From offset: Retrieve only offsets above a specific offset. You must enter an offset. 
        * From latest: retrieve new messages coming in from the time of the search.

#### Message Transmission Test

1. To test message delivery, click **Message Transmission Test** button.
2. Enter the message information to send.
    * **Partition ID**: An ID that specifies a specific partition to send messages to. If not specified, a partition is automatically selected.
    * **Header**: Metadata that is sent with the message. It can contain additional information about the message in the form of key-value pairs.
    * **Key**: The identifier used to determine which partition the message will be stored in.
    * **Value**: The body data of the message that will actually be sent. It can be entered in various formats, including text, JSON, and binary, etc.
3. Click **Confirm**.

!!! TIP "Note"
When testing message transmission, you can send it as an empty message without entering any partition ID, header, key, or value.

### Consumer Group
* A list of consumer groups for EasyQueue topics is displayed. Only up to 50 consumer groups are retrieved.
* You can retrieve consumer group ID, number of consumers, assigned partitions, total lag, and status information. 
* When you click an item, the Consumers Information bottom tab of the Consumer group appears.
    * You see a list of consumers that belong to the Consumer group.
    * You can view consumer ID, partition ID, lag, current offset, and end offset information.

!!! danger "Caution"
    * If a consumer group remains in the No Members state for more than 7 days, the group information and offsets are automatically deleted.


### Monitoring
* With EasyQueue topic monitoring, you can view a topic's inbound/outbound byte rate, message count, lag by consumer group, and overall data size metrics.

| Metric | Description |
|------|------|
| **Inbound/outbound byte rate** | **Inbound**: The amount of data throughput that a producer sends to a topic.<br>**Outbound**: the amount of data throughput consumers read from a topic |
| **Number of messages** | Indicates the total number of messages stored in the topic. |
| **Consumer group Lag** | This indicates the number of messages in a consumer group that have yet to be processed. It represents the gap between the latest message produced and the last offset read by the consumer.<br>Lag monitoring metrics by consumer group are only retrieved for the 10 highest consumer lag values at this time. |
| **Data storage size** | The disk storage space that the topic is currently using.<br>Legends are broken down by partition and include both leader and replica partitions. |

!!! tip "Note"
    Monitoring data is retained for 90 days.